File                            Description
------------    ------------------------------------------------------------

cbfopn.f       - COS blocked file read/write subroutine; entries include:
                   CBFOPN - Sets up access to a logical unit.
                   CBFRD  - Read the next sequential record.
                   CBFWR  - Write the next sequential record.
                   CBFREW - Rewind the unit (read only).
                   CBFCLS - Close the unit, if open for write, flush the
                            buffer and add an EOF.
                   CBFEOF - Write an EOF (write only).
                 Externals needed are GBYTES and maybe SWAP4; see directory
		 ../gbytes).  Modified Aug 1999.

cbfscan.f      - Read COS blocked files on unix system and summarize contents.
                 CBFSCAN prompts for a file name from stdin, writes to stdout
                 the beginning of the first ten records in each file, and
                 one line summaries of each file's contents displaying min/max
		 record lengths and number of records.  Modified Aug 1999.

cbfunblk.f     - Read COS blocked files and write to stdout (without COS
		 blocking).  This uses cbfopn.f; see also cosconvert.c.

cosconvert.c   - This utility strips the COS-blocking from a COS-blocked file,
		 leaving either a plain-binary or a Unix-ASCII file.  The source
		 code is written in C and has been tested on Sun and SGI
		 systems.

cosfile.c      - This utility summarizes a COS-blocked file.  The source code is
		 written in C and has been tested on Sun and SGI systems.


cossplit.c     - This utility splits a multiple-file COS-blocked dataset into
		 individual COS-blocked files.  The source code is written in C
		 and has been tested on Sun and SGI systems.

iopack         - Directory containing VAX VMS routines for reading (RDTAPE)
                 and writing (WRTAPE) variable length records.

lrecio.f       - Routines for reading/writing fixed blocked tape records;
                 entries include:
                   LOPEN  - Sets up access to a logical unit, defines
                            record and block size.
                   LREAD  - Reads the next sequential logical record.
                   LWRITE - Writes a logical record.
                   LCLOSE - Removes a logical unit connection.

rdtape.f       - Subroutines RDTAPE, WRTAPE and IOWAIT for use on a Cray
                 (converts to BUFFER IN, BUFFER OUT, and LENGTH and UNIT
                 calls).

rptout.f       - NCAR Cray code for writing small logical records within
		 larger physical blocks for more efficient I/O.

rptin.f        - NCAR Cray code for reading records written by rptout.f

rptinx.f       - Read a file which was written in NCAR RPTIN format.  Uses
                 RDTAPE for device I/O.

rptinxcbfrd.f  - Like rptinx.f, but uses the cbfopn.f package to read
		 COS blocked file format.  Modified Aug 1999.

rptinxcbfrd.for - same as rpintxcbfrd.f but for PC running Digital Visual Fortran

rptinxcbfsub.f - rptinxcbfrd.f without the example main (driver) routine.
                 Modified Oct 1997.

systems_info   - Operating system summaries listing key differences in
                 I/O, including recommended GBYTES versions.

ublok          - Unblocks fixed length character or binary logical records
                 from larger physical records.  Each logical record must be an
                 integer multiple of 64 bits long.  Logical records must not
                 cross physical record boundaries.  Assumes NCAR CRAY 64-bit
                 main-frame and availability of GBYTE/GBYTES.

uzblok         - Unblocks fixed length character or binary logical records
                 from larger physical records.  The logical records need not
                 start at the beginning of the physical record and the logical
                 record may be any number of bits long.  Logical records must
                 not cross physical record boundaries.  Assumes NCAR CRAY
                 64-bit main-frame and availability of GBYTE/GBYTES.

vaxrec.f       - On a ftp binary file transfer to a VAX, VMS breaks up records
                 longer than 512 bytes into 512-byte blocks.  Subsequently,
                 access programs expecting a longer record fail on the first
                 read.  Vaxrec.f reblocks binary records into the record
                 length specified by the user.

vbsio.f        - Routines for reading/writing IBM VBS format tape records;
                 entries include:
                   VOPEN  - Sets up access to a logical unit.
                   VREAD  - Reads the next sequential logical record.
                   VWRITE - Writes a logical record.
                   VCLOSE - Removes a logical unit connection.

